# Problem description

The adoption of the Paris climate agreement recognized the risk of climate change. Nations commit themselves to limit global warming well below 2 degrees Celsius (UN, 2015). To meet this objective, countries are expected to peak their greenhouse gas (GHG) emission and pursue the highest achievable reduction ambition as soon as possible. This comprises the necessity for countries to redesign their carbon-rich activities towards almost completely decarbonized economies within the shortest possible time frame.

Although countries committed to peaking and reducing their GHG emissions, there are no legal consequences that enforced countries to implement the necessary measures to reach the desired GHG emission targets. The implementation of the agreement is based on a voluntary basis in which countries can only peer pressure each other on a global scale (Davenport, 2014). This peer pressure mechanism only works when there is enough data available to monitor the progress that countries are making, so countries that are falling behind can be pressured to deliver on their responsibility.

Thereafter, countries can learn from each other by tracking progress. Lessons can be learned from identifying possible underlying causes and can subsequently be implemented by other countries. Tracking progress can be expressed in a broader indicator then GHG emissions alone. The concept of environmental conciseness includes health and vitality of the ecosystem and therefore also describe changes in the natural emission sink capacity within countries. 

This report therefore aims to investigate the relation between environmental consciousness and underlying causes on a global scale. Therefore, this report addresses the following research question: Are there communalities between countries that explain environmental consciousness of a society?.

# Content descripton

The analysis in this report starts by defining and quantifying environmental consciousness. We decided to use the environmental vitality score as proposed in Hsu, A. (2016). For a comprehensive list of potential indicators we choose to adapt the indicators of sustainable development of the UN (UN, 2017). However, the sources of all proposed indicators vary significantly. Unfortunately the time limited nature of this project forced us to reduce our analysis on indicators provided by the worldbank.
Additionally, several indicators included missing values. This forced us to exclude indicators in our analysis of which imputation was not expected to be fruitful. We perform a factor analysis to determine the underlying motivations or hinderings for environmental conscious behavior. The resulting factors are then rotated by a varimax rotation and interpreted based on their factor loadings. In order to understand the impact of those latent variables we perform a final linear regression on the transformed factor values.
